README.md, before:

VideoEnhancer provides scripts for video frame interpolation using RIFE and optional upscaling with multiple models including RealSR, waifu2x, RealESRGAN, SwinIR and diffusion-based pipelines. A simple Tkinter GUI is included to run the tools interactively.

## Installation


On **Windows** you can install the required Python packages and fetch the RIFE,
FFmpeg and upscaling binaries automatically:

Python 3.10 or newer is required.

Install the required Python packages and fetch the RIFE, FFmpeg and upscaling binaries automatically:


```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
python install_requirements.py
```


The `install_requirements.py` script downloads the latest RealSR, waifu2x,
RealESRGAN and SwinIR executables automatically. Diffusion model weights are
fetched on first use. The script is designed for Windows only.

Linux or macOS users should install the packages with `pip install -r
requirements.txt` and then manually install FFmpeg along with the desired RIFE
and upscaling executables. Pre-built binaries can be obtained from each
project's releases, or you can compile them yourself. The `setup_env.py` script
in this repository can help create a virtual environment if needed.

The `install_requirements.py` script now downloads the latest Windows builds of RealSR, waifu2x, RealESRGAN and SwinIR automatically via the GitHub API. Diffusion model weights are fetched on first use.


## Interpolating Videos

`interpolate_video.py` extracts frames, removes duplicates, interpolates to the desired frame rate and reconstructs a new video. The output format can be selected with the `--output_format` option (mp4 or gif). Example:

```bash
python interpolate_video.py input.mp4 output.mp4 --model rife-v4.6 --fps_factor 2 --output_format mp4
```

## Upscaling Videos

`upscale_video.py` can upscale videos using RealSR, waifu2x, RealESRGAN, SwinIR or diffusion models such as SDx4 and LDSR. Specify the model name and output path:

```bash
python upscale_video.py input.mp4 output_upscaled.mp4 --model realsr --scale 2 --output_format mp4
```

Available models include `realsr`, `waifu2x`, `realesrgan`, `swinir`, `sdx4` and `ldsr`. RealSR and waifu2x support multiple internal models such as `realsr-x4plus` or `waifu2x-cunet`.

### GUI Usage

The Tkinter GUI (`GUI.py`) now exposes upscaling alongside interpolation. Select an input file, choose a RIFE model, enable the *Upscale* checkbox and pick the desired upscaler and model. When you click **Start**, the video will be interpolated and optionally upscaled using your chosen settings.

The GUI will automatically install RIFE and FFmpeg on first launch if they are missing. Use `python GUI.py --install` or choose **Tools → Install Dependencies** in the menu to run the installer manually.

## Example Commands

```bash
# Interpolate only
python interpolate_video.py src.mp4 out.gif --fps_factor 4 --output_format gif

# Upscale only
python upscale_video.py src.gif out_upscaled.gif --model sdx4 --scale 4 --output_format gif

# Interpolate then upscale
python interpolate_video.py src.mp4 temp.mp4 --fps_factor 2
python upscale_video.py temp.mp4 final.mp4 --model sdx4 --scale 4
```

Commit message:

Clarify location of upscaler binaries

README.md, after:

VideoEnhancer provides scripts for video frame interpolation using RIFE and optional upscaling with multiple models including RealSR, waifu2x, RealESRGAN, SwinIR and diffusion-based pipelines. A simple Tkinter GUI is included to run the tools interactively.

## Installation


On **Windows** you can install the required Python packages and fetch the RIFE,
FFmpeg and upscaling binaries automatically:

Python 3.10 or newer is required.

Install the required Python packages and fetch the RIFE, FFmpeg and upscaling binaries automatically:


```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
python install_requirements.py
```


The `install_requirements.py` script downloads the latest RealSR, waifu2x,
RealESRGAN and SwinIR executables automatically. Diffusion model weights are
fetched on first use. The script is designed for Windows only.

Linux or macOS users should install the packages with `pip install -r
requirements.txt` and then manually install FFmpeg along with the desired RIFE
and upscaling executables. Pre-built binaries can be obtained from each
project's releases, or you can compile them yourself. The `setup_env.py` script
in this repository can help create a virtual environment if needed.

 The `install_requirements.py` script now downloads the latest Windows builds of RealSR, waifu2x, RealESRGAN and SwinIR automatically via the GitHub API. Diffusion model weights are fetched on first use.

After running the installer the upscaler executables reside in folders such as
`waifu2x-ncnn-vulkan` within this repository. `upscale_video.py` will
automatically search these folders so you don't need to modify your `PATH`.


## Interpolating Videos

`interpolate_video.py` extracts frames, removes duplicates, interpolates to the desired frame rate and reconstructs a new video. The output format can be selected with the `--output_format` option (mp4 or gif). Example:

```bash
python interpolate_video.py input.mp4 output.mp4 --model rife-v4.6 --fps_factor 2 --output_format mp4
```

## Upscaling Videos

`upscale_video.py` can upscale videos using RealSR, waifu2x, RealESRGAN, SwinIR or diffusion models such as SDx4 and LDSR. Specify the model name and output path:

```bash
python upscale_video.py input.mp4 output_upscaled.mp4 --model realsr --scale 2 --output_format mp4
```

Available models include `realsr`, `waifu2x`, `realesrgan`, `swinir`, `sdx4` and `ldsr`. RealSR and waifu2x support multiple internal models such as `realsr-x4plus` or `waifu2x-cunet`.

### GUI Usage

The Tkinter GUI (`GUI.py`) now exposes upscaling alongside interpolation. Select an input file, choose a RIFE model, enable the *Upscale* checkbox and pick the desired upscaler and model. When you click **Start**, the video will be interpolated and optionally upscaled using your chosen settings.

The GUI will automatically install RIFE and FFmpeg on first launch if they are missing. Use `python GUI.py --install` or choose **Tools → Install Dependencies** in the menu to run the installer manually.

## Example Commands

```bash
# Interpolate only
python interpolate_video.py src.mp4 out.gif --fps_factor 4 --output_format gif

# Upscale only
python upscale_video.py src.gif out_upscaled.gif --model sdx4 --scale 4 --output_format gif

# Interpolate then upscale
python interpolate_video.py src.mp4 temp.mp4 --fps_factor 2
python upscale_video.py temp.mp4 final.mp4 --model sdx4 --scale 4
```
